Remarks by Indonesian President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo at the APEC CEO Summit on November 10, 2014, in Beijing, China. 

Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and CEOs, good morning.

First, on behalf of the Indonesian Government and the people of Indonesia, I would like to thank you for coming to my presentation. Today, I am happy, I am very happy, to be with you, because you know I was a businessman years ago. So, this morning, I am very happy because we can talk about business, about investment with all of you.

The picture shows you our map of Indonesia. We have a population of 240 million and the distance is like from London in UK to Istanbul in Turkey. And imagine, we have 17,000 islands. 17,000 islands.

Our national budget for 2015 is $167 billion and for fuel subsidy is $27 billion. It's huge. So we want to channel our fuel subsidy from consumption to the productive activities. From consumptive activities to productive activities. We want to channel our fuel subsidy to the farm for seeds, for fertilizers, and also for irrigation. And we want to build dams – 25 dams in 5 years from our fuel subsidy to maintain the water supply to the farming area.

Some subsidy we want to channel to the fishermen, to give them boat engines, to give them refrigerators. We want to increase the income of the fishermen. Some fuel subsidy we want to give to micro and small enterprises in the villages. We want to help them raise their working capital. And some subsidy we want to channel to the health program, the education program. And some subsidy we want to channel to infrastructure.

In 5 years we want to build 24 seaports and deep seaports. As you know, we have 17,000 islands, so we need seaports and we need deep seaports. And this is your opportunity: 24 seaports and deep seaports.

The picture shows our Jakarta Port, Tanjung Priok port. In 2009, the capacity is 3.6 million TEUs a year, and our plan in 2017 is around 15 million TEUs a year. This is the potential ports in Indonesia. This is your opportunity. We want to build in Sumatera island, in Kalimantan island, in Java island, in Sulawesi island, in Maluku island, also in Papua island.

And we plan to build our railway track, railway network. Now we have already in Java and we want to build in Sumatera island, in Kalimantan island, in Sulawesi island and also in Papua island. This is your opportunity.

Now we talk about mass transportation. We want to build our mass transportation in 6 big cities in Indonesia. We have started in Jakarta last year, and we want to build in Medan, in Makassar, in Semarang, in Bandung, in Surabaya. So, this is also your opportunity, because you know our national budget is limited.

Now we talk about our maritime agenda. We want to build sea toll. What is sea toll? Sea toll is maritime transportation system to make our transportation cost lower, to make our transportation cost more efficient. We want to build from the west to the east. We hope not only the vessels can enter our sea toll but also mother vessels can enter the sea toll. So, the price, the cost of the transportation is more efficient.

For example, the price of the cement, one sack cement, in Java island is $6 per sack cement. But in Papua island the price is $150 per sack cement. Imagine, 25 times. So we hope with our sea toll the price in our islands is the same.

Electricity. We need power plants. We need around 35,000 megavolts to build our industries, to build our projects, to build our industrial zones, our manufacturing zones. So, we need power plants. This is also your opportunity to invest in this project. Because we need our power plants for manufacturing, for industrial zones.

Many investors, a lot of investors, when they come to me, most of them they always complain about land acquisition. I will push my ministers, my governors, my mayors, to help clear this problem. I have experience with land acquisition when I was a governor. We have a project, the Jakarta Outer Ring Road, started 15 years ago but was stopped 8 years ago, because we have a problem here: 1.5 kilometers unfinished because there is 143 families who do not accept with the compensation price. So last year I invite them. I go to them then I invite them to lunch and dinner. Four times. Ah, this is me. I invite them and then we talk about the problem. Four times. Four times meeting. And the problem is cleared.

And now the toll road has been used (starting) 7 month ago.

Now we talk business permit. We have national one-stop service office that can help you, that will serve you, that will facilitate you, that will give you your business permit. For example, principle business permit needs 3 days to process.

Finally, again on behalf of the Indonesian government and the people of Indonesia, I would like to thank you for your listening (to) my presentation. We are waiting for you to come to Indonesia. We are waiting for you to invest in Indonesia.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Good morning.